.\" $RCSId: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/kdrive/Xkdrive.man,v 1.3 2001/01/24 00:06:10 dawes Exp $
.\"
.TH Xkdrive 1 @vendorversion@
.SH NAME
Xkdrive \- tiny X server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Xfbdev
.RI [ :display ]
.RI [ option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Xkdrive
is a family of X servers designed to be particularly small.  This
manual page describes the common functionality of the
.B Xkdrive
servers; for information on a specific X server, please refer to the
relevant manual page.
.SH OPTIONS
In addition to the standard options accepted by all X servers (see
.BR Xserver (@miscmansuffix@),
all the
.B Xkdrive
servers accept the following options:
.TP 8
.B -dumb
disable hardware acceleration.
.TP 8
.B -origin \fIX\fP,\fIY\fP
Locates the next screen in the Xinerama virtual screen.
.TP 8
.B -screen \fIwidth\fBx\fIheight\fR[\fBx\fIdepth\fR[\fBx\fIfreq\fR]]\fR[\fB@\fIrotation\fR]\fB
use a screen of the specified \fIwidth\fP, \fIheight\fP, screen \fIdepth\fP, \fIfrequency\fP, and \fIrotation\fP (0, 90, 180 and 270 are legal values).
.TP 8
.B -softCursor
disable the hardware cursor.
.TP 8
.B -videoTest
start the server, pause momentarily, and exit.
.TP 8
.B -zaphod
disable switching screens by moving the pointer across a screen boundary.
.TP 8
.B -2button
enable emulation of a middle mouse button by chording.
.TP 8
.B -3button
disable emulation of a middle mouse button by chording.
.SH KEYBOARD
The
.B Xkdrive
servers are normally configured to recognize various special combinations
of key presses that instruct the server to perform some action, rather
than just sending the key press event to a client application.
These actions depend on the XKB keymap loaded by a particular keyboard device
and may or may not be available on a given configuration.
.PP
The following key special combinations are recognized by the
.B Xkdrive
servers.
.TP 8
.B Ctrl+Alt+Backspace
.TP 8
.B Ctrl+Alt+Delete
.TP 8
.B Ctrl+Alt+KeyPadDelete
Immediately kills the server -- no questions asked. It can be disabled by
adding the
.B -nozap
command-line argument.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (@miscmansuffix@),
.BR Xserver (@miscmansuffix@),
.BR xdm (@miscmansuffix@),
.BR xinit (@miscmansuffix@),
.BR Xvesa (@miscmansuffix@),
.BR Xfbdev (@miscmansuffix@).
.SH AUTHORS
The Xkdrive common core was written by Keith Packard,
and is based on the Sample Implementation of X.
